Oh
welcome to the Armenian kitchen comm I'm
del colle agent today we're making Costa
which is Armenian stuffed meatballs and
here's the brilliant thing about
Armenian stuffed meatballs they're
stuffed with meat there are many
variations for this dish different names
throughout the near and Middle East but
also even among Armenians there are many
variations in the recipe and in the
shape some Armenians prefer to make it
in the what we Americans call the
football shape because it was sort of
like an American football some learning
is make it round like a baseball some
some put it in the tray they call it si
me gusta and it's just layered meat
labor filling and then we're making the
cooked out of the way my mother made it
the defined activity with that which is
well we call it the shape of a flying
saucer and you're gonna see why when I'm
finished now here's the twist we're
making a heart healthy proof that and if
that sounds like a contradiction it is
but we're going to do it anyway instead
of using the traditional ground lamb or
ground beef we're using ground turkey
for both the stuffing and the ship we're
using the leanest ground turkey we could
find for the stuffing 97 percent lean it
has very very little fat we're using 93%
lean turkey for the Shelby cuz it has to
have a little bit of fat in it or you
won't be able to mold it properly there
are two components to proof that one is
the shell the other is the stuffing
we call it the meet you the shell is
simply ground meat very finely ground
meat you grind it two or three times
also Buller final or number one go over
if you can find it and seasonings the
stuffing is more meat
parsley onions thyme nuts and seasonings
I wanted you to see the stuffing I made
this a day ahead of time so that it was
set and become much easier to work with
traditionally this is made with butter
but because we're trying to be healthy
we've made this with olive oil so it's
not quite as solid as it would be
traditionally but I'm going to work with
it anyway now the key to making of that
is to work quickly and to work with cold
hands so in order to help me with that
I have a bowl of ice water standing by
and by the way the reason Robin is not
making this even though she's the
executive chef at the Armenian kitchen
calm is her grandmother told her when
she was young
your hands are too warm and she was
dismissed from cook that make up it's a
great shame in our family but we bear up
with it now I should mention that I
added a little bit of olive oil and a
beaten egg to the shell mixture so that
it would be a little easier to work with
and of course you'll get the entire
recipe at www.minettis.com firt lee in
the palm of my hand and there's really
no trick to it this just takes practice
you cook your hand and use the thumb on
the other hand to make a hole and
depression in the in the meat and you
keep pressing outward with your fingers
until it takes the shape of a shell and
you want to get this as thin as you
possibly can that is the trick people
who are good at this can make this so
thin it's almost like paper
I'm not that good but I'm good enough so
I can make this pretty thin and I must
say that Turkey is easy to work with and
so if you see I have a shell now in my
hand and if it breaks apart you just fix
it you just take another piece of meat
and
they can take a spoon and just about a
heaping tablespoon of filling should do
it you put it right in the center of the
shell you don't have to be precise and
you fold over the top of the shell maybe
what your hands again you can cold and
work the meat so that it closes
and again if there's a little hole you
can just take some more of the shell
mixture pass it over and continue to
work it and that's all there is to it
now do you understand what I meant by
the Flying Saucer shape as you can see
it's flat on the bottom and domed on the
top and that's the way it's going to
cook so ideally you will take the
completed Cooke data put it in your
refrigerator for maybe an hour let it
get nice and firm and then you cook it
now
some people like to bake it we like to
boil that's the way it's done
traditionally in our family whatever you
prefer if you boil it be very careful
when you put it into the boiling water
because it can break apart so slide it
in very gently and really when the cook
that Rises sort of like ravioli it's
done we like to give it a few extra
seconds just to be very sure remember
the the stuffing is already cooked the
shell is very thin so this is not going
to take very long sir traditionally with
a little yogurt or a lot of yogurt if
you prefer and I'm just going to come
into this for you so that you see what
it looks like inside
you see the shell the stuffin fantastic
again the recipe is at www.engvid.com
thank you